Tables can be created very easily from plain text.  

'''Markup Text'''
{{{![
simple plain
text pasted
from somewhere
]!}}}----
'''Displays as:'''
![
simple plain
text pasted
from somewhere
]!
One note on editing plain text tables with the rich text editor: the content is displayed as
{{{
<plaintexttable>
simple plain
text pasted
from somewhere
</plaintexttable>
}}}
In order to add extra lines, use <Shift>-<Enter> to add lines when editing the plain text table. It is not possible to create plain text tables from the rich text editor.

----
These are ''literalized'' tables, so most wiki markup does not work inside them.

You can create cells by declaring a delimiter as the first character after the '''['''.  Only punctuation characters will work.:
{{{![:
Name:Bob
Address:Here
Street:Cranbrook:Zip:60048
]!}}}
'''Displays as:'''
![:
Name:Bob
Address:Here
Street:Cranbrook:Zip:60048
]!
----
If you want to hide the first row of the table, you can put it right after the delimiter following a space.  The first row is still there, it's just hidden.  
{{{![: Location
Name:Bob
Address:Here
Street:Cranbrook:Zip:60048
]!}}}
'''Displays as:'''
![: Location
Name:Bob
Address:Here
Street:Cranbrook:Zip:60048
]!
----
If you want to hide the first row but don't want a delimiter, you still need the space right after the '''['''.
----

Example:
{{{![ BDD:JukeBoxDriver
Given a jukebox with price set to $1.00
When a customer deposits $2.00
And presses B5
And presses C21
Then Stairway to Heaven will play.
And Comforably Numb will play.
]!}}}
'''Displays as:'''
![ BDD:JukeBoxDriver
Given a jukebox with price set to $1.00
When a customer deposits $2.00
And presses B5
And presses C21
Then Stairway to Heaven will play.
And Comforably Numb will play.
]!


